.TH PREVIEW 1 "2026" "preview 0.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
preview \- open a document in a native viewer window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B preview
.RI [ options ]
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B preview
opens
.I file
in a native pop-up window and renders it in a viewer-friendly form, like
macOS Quick Look but cross-platform (macOS and Linux) and covering many
file types. Each supported type is converted to HTML and displayed in the
operating system's built-in web view (WKWebView on macOS, WebKitGTK on
Linux).
.PP
Supported types include Markdown, images (PNG, JPEG, GIF, WebP, BMP, SVG,
and others), plain text and source code with syntax highlighting, JSON,
CSV and TSV, HTML, PDF, and the Office formats DOCX, XLSX, and PPTX. The
type is detected from the file extension, falling back to magic bytes and
then a text-versus-binary heuristic.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print usage information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print the version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-watch
Re-render the window whenever the file changes on disk.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-remote
Block remote images and other network subresources (offline mode). The
content security policy is tightened so only inline
.RB ( data: )
images load, preventing documents from acting as tracking beacons.
.TP
.B \-\-dump\-html
Print the generated HTML to standard output instead of opening a window.
.TP
.B \-\-close\-after \fIms\fR
Automatically close the window after the given number of milliseconds.
Intended for testing.
.SH "KEYS"
In the viewer window,
.B Esc
closes the window and the arrow keys, space, and page keys scroll. The
color scheme follows the operating system's light or dark setting.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
The file could not be read.
.TP
.B 2
Invalid command-line usage.
.SH "SECURITY"
Documents are treated as untrusted: scripts embedded in Markdown are not
executed, unsafe link schemes are neutralized, and only verified image
data is inlined. PDFs are rendered in an isolated, syscall-sandboxed child
process so a bug in the PDF engine cannot spawn programs or open network
connections. See the project README for the full security model,
including known limitations such as remote image loading.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Project homepage: https://github.com/logan-scott/preview
